drastic change because it was it was very of course
they had that year of interim yeah and you sort of
you know i floundered around for that one year and
uh but um would you but you were really you more or
less kept kept it the way hubert Or were you
somewhere in between the two? I would have to say I
had to be somewhere in between the two, because I
recognized that in the position I played, I could
not say, there it is, and that's where we're going,
because I was not going to be around any length of
time to see if we got there. So it was definitely a
period of time where the college wallowed around,
and we did the best we could with what we had.
Did you get very much input? participation from
Hubert after he became chancellor? No, no, no. And
he is not that type of individual. If you had come up
and wanted to get some information, he would be
only too glad to provide it. I can recall, I don't
know if you were sitting right there, when we went
up on another matter one time, I can't remember
exactly what it was, but he He was very interested
in having
Cole come up there and work for him. And I
recognized that
Cole was the individual that would carry and give
the continuity to many of the things in the dean's
office. His experiences date back to when he was a
graduate student and worked in the dean's office
when we were over there in the Cushing Library
building and that type of thing.
But Dean Hubert, who he could have, of course, and
explained very nicely, Phil, that he's coming up
here. I want him, period. After all, that is the
chancellor we're talking to. But he asked my
opinion, and I gave him my opinion, and he honored
it. He let him study, and I'm pleased that he did. I
think the college would be in a
difficult position if there was not what I call the
continuity. That somebody has the historical
background. And from my interview with Dean Cole,
I asked him about that because I have heard from
other interviews that a lot of the
decision-making goes to him. And he said that the
dean does seek his counsel in a lot of the decisions
and usually listens. And I think that's good
because he feels that there is that. No. And Hubert
always did the same. As far as when you got up there
and you were on his staff, This guidance was very
clear. That's your area. You were what Dean Coles,
in Dean Coles' position as Dr. Hubert. Yes, yes.
Which is the Student Affairs. That's right, the
Student Affairs. And Hubert was very clear and,
Bill, that's yours. You handle it. If you have need
of my assistance, come visit with me. And I would go
to see him on sensitive political things, you
know, when state senators wanted their kid to get
in and this kind of thing. Generally speaking, it
was very interesting. You would tell them to go
blow it, and stand behind you, and Prescott would
stand behind you, and Calhoun would stand behind
you, and we would tell them, sorry, but that isn't
the way the university operates. At other times,
there were other political decisions that never
reached the confrontation type of thing, but were
done in a A typical style. It was done all behind,
sub rosa. And you were presented with what the
French called fait accompli. Okay. How do you feel
that the college was perceived by outsiders at the
time? And by outsiders, I mean maybe within Texas
A&M or even beyond. Was there... College of
Education, notoriously. Everyone that I've been
associated with. They're usually looked down
upon by the colleges of liberal arts. We were more
fortunate here. There is still that. And I see
evidences of it creeping back up again. And the
state, of course, is assisting in that kind of
putting it down type of thing. But the reason I say I
think we were more fortunate, you know the history
in that Dean Hubert was the dean of liberal arts.
And he had the opportunity to continue the dean of
liberal arts or to continue, help to move over. And
he chose to take over the College of Education,
which, of course, gave us a tremendous boost in the
eyes of the rest of the faculty. And he knew where
all the skeletons were in most of the colleges,
having formed many of the colleges. So that we rode
along very nicely for a fair time. How we are today,
I really do not know. But of course, the state has
taken such a hatchet swing at us that I don't see how
we can be counted to be able to hold our heads up and
be looked upon by our colleagues as where we think
we should be. Were you instrumental in being this
acting dean in the search and the ultimate
selection of Dean Corrigan? Other than, other
than as a member of the college,
the search committee was basically given free
reign.
Eskimo Monroe, I think, was dean of faculties, and
I think he was the chairman of the or ex officio or
something like that. And it was strictly a
decision on the part of that committee, a
recommendation. The faculty were given a voice in
it, but the decision basically was one up at that
committee level. I see nothing wrong with that
process. I would prefer to have that type of
process than one where a faculty has the sole
decision and the university is not involved in it.
I think the university does a good job of bringing
in and giving everybody an opportunity to express
opinions. We had some good quality people,
excellent people. One of the perceptions from a
faculty member having worked under both, that
when the Corrigan administration took over,
there was more opportunities for faculty to, I
believe she put it something about being more
creative, having an opportunity to expand,
whatever. How do you feel about that? I would tend
to agree in that being Corrigan always has a
tendency to encourage an individual to do these
things. the individual faculty member is
encouraged to be creative. His or her opinions are
sought.
The other side of the coin is
if you have 50 people going in 50 different
directions, when do you get the focus? to this type
of thing. And these are just problems that an
administration has to wrestle with. What is the
role of setting the overall arching goal of this
type of thing and then fitting into this? How many
years did you work under Dean Corbyn?
He came in 1980.
I retired the first time under, I retired. He
asked me to stay on half the time with him, and I
stayed half the time with him until 84, I think, and
that's when they asked me to go over to the
National. And you were also very instrumental in
getting that, was it the NK? Oh, yes. I've seen your
name on all those reports. That was a big job for
you. That was. And I was very pleased with the
report they had, because we felt that we had a good
college of education. And the visiting team
couldn't say enough good things about it. I
believe they're getting ready for another one
here pretty soon. I'm very pleased. Another set of
hands. OK. Visions. And again, I guess because
you're not there now, it's hard for you to maybe
have a handle on where the college is going. Have
you stayed in touch very much, or do you know? No.
I'm of the school that I've seen in so many offices
where the old guard keeps coming back until they
get to be a boring nuisance. I don't come back.
Rarely do I come back. I just came back recently
from New England. I brought Dean Corrigan and a
couple sugar maple leaves for them, you know, this
kind of thing. But I don't get in there because I
know that there are just a lot of office politics
and things and this type of thing, so I just go. It
was a nice way of moving away from it when I was
moving into the International for, I don't know,
two, three years. I can't recall how long it was.
And that way I got away from it. I don't go to the
Christmas parties anymore and this kind of thing.
I've done a little bit of art in one of the classes,
653, studying the culture and the climate of the
college. Did that change drastically during your
time? Because, you know, the sex. We in the college
probably had more women in 69 and 70 than any other
college. It was a doctoral thing. And I lament the
fact that what was our strong support, which was
that intelligent young female, has now left and
has gone to business and other places. The
strength of the College of Education has always
been the quality of the dedicated females that we
at one time attracted, which we do not anymore. And
it's understandable.
The grass is quite a bit greener than some of the
other places. Do you think the pendulum is going to
swing back any time? I hope for the youngsters'
sake that it does. And I don't know what
inducements we will give or what delusionments
will have to come before they come back. But I'm
biased in that I think a dedicated teacher gets a
reward of the intrinsic award that you get from it
that you cannot find in many other types of things.
This is just a garrulous old man, but I feel
strongly about it. Can you talk just for a couple of
minutes about any particular highlights and are
perhaps your contribution during your time here.
I'm encountering some reluctance on the part of
interviewees to elaborate on their
contributions, but an insight, an observation.
You gave me some good anecdotes at the beginning,
too. Is there something that stands out? Well,
that which you take pride in. I think that which I
take pride in is the struggle
enhance the image of the college in the university
community. And you use that medium of exchange,
which is the GPR, as the medium of exchange that you
can say our students are equal to or better than,
this type of thing. That was a very difficult
struggle. The associate deans had a group,
we called it the academic, no, I really can't
recall the name of it, but there was a group that was
set up because there was a need for people to come
together who were going to actually implement the
decisions that the university APC, or the
Academic Programs Committee, which was the
president and the vice president, provost now,
and all this kind of thing, and the deans. They
would make the policy. But as is true of most
organizations, they didn't really know how to
implement it. And you're not expected to know. But
the associate deans did. And that was our
organization where we fleshed out and
implemented those decisions that were made by the
APC. And it was in that organization that the
struggle was, because they were always trying to
make it easy for their colleges to get rid of their
deadwood. And we would continually struggle to
prevent them from dumping onto this place. And
yet, at the same time, want the opportunity to look
at those kids to try to salvage what, in our
judgment, were useful students. And it's a very
sensitive and delicate thing. And I think it's
still going on to a large extent. And I think Dean
Cole has had it made more difficult by our
legislators down there. And I don't know.
In closing, Dr. Lindbacher, is there anything
that you would like to add? add to the different
areas that we've talked about, even if they're not
even directly related to any of the questions?
Well, the use of the policy committee meeting,
either in the archives or in the dean's office.
Hubert's secretary used to be on Peggy Ritchie.
She's still there, and she's given me a lot of those
documents. That, to me, would be, and they're not
generally too thick. And if you can get them in
chronological order, things begin to emerge.
They're just at least their guideposts as to the
direction they were going. It doesn't have all the
nuances that you would get from a. Was it the
agendas or the minutes that they would be? Oh, the
minutes. Oh, the minutes. The minutes. The
agendas are useful, but the minutes would give you
some flavor for the kinds of
actions that took place. I would say that they
would be very fruitful areas for hanging some of
these ideas that you have on. That's right,
because what I'm interested in so much, besides
the history, because there hasn't been anything
since 1967 when Lorraine Roby did the study, but
since then nothing has been done as far as the
historical, but I'm interested in the
perceptions of people and the human part of the
college, what really made it made those things
happen, the kinds of personalities, and the
interaction of personalities, and how all of that
evolved to the great college that there is now.
Well, I mean, what you're after is, I think, the
interesting aspects of it. But I think there needs
to be a basic structure that you begin to hang these
things on. Right, exactly. And maybe it's because
I used to enjoy history You need a historical
thread that would take you through. Now, those
were initiated by Dean Hubert, and they continued
the same under Dean Corrigan? To my knowledge,
yes, they continued the same. It's a policy
committee group. I guess now they just call it, is
it the normal faculty meeting or department head
meeting or whatever? Department head meeting,
maybe that. I think that's what they call it now.
Department head meeting. I think so. Yeah, they
called them policy committee meetings at that
time. And that was a weekly? Weekly, weekly. And
they were legislative. It, you know, it provided
information and it also provided opportunities
for departments to bring up things that were
bothering them. A lot of my interviews, you know,
everybody of course relates to the two
administrations and even though the Hubert
administration is often referred to as
autocratic, dictatorial, there's still a lot of
that humanness that the people that worked
intimately with Hubert were able to perceive that
perhaps was not as perceivable. I think anyone who
worked with D. Hubert recognized his ability in
the professional area. He was outstanding as a
politician. He, having worked in the Texas
Education Agency, knew the politics in there. He
knew the skeletons. And he, of course, was a very
close friend of Alton Bowen, who became, as you
know, the commissioner. And Alton is, of course,
He was also on our first development council. I'll
be going with him. I told him last night. Thank you
very, very much, Dr. Limbacher. I appreciate your
insights and hope you'll let me ask you some
questions later.